Skip to main content
Westminster City Council – Homepage
Residents Businesses MyWestminster accounts
Enter your keywords (optional)
Search
Search
Home Parking Electric vehicles
Electric vehicles
Electric vehicle charge points on the Westminster road network for residents and visitors.

Page contents
Why go electric?
Charging providers in Westminster
Charging at a car park
Charging from a private supply over the highway
Westminster car club
Help identify demand
Reporting a fault
We have nearly 2,500 on-street electric vehicle (EV) charge points in Westminster, ranging from 5kW to 50kW.  More are being added to provide even greater coverage for the growing number of EV owners in the City.

We have provided charge points for our residents by fitting units either inside or next to lamp columns alongside resident parking bays.  We have also created in excess of 400 dedicated EV bays alongside these lamp column charge points for residents to charge from.

We would like to ask that you please unplug your vehicle and move away from the lamp column charge point once you have charged it so that other residents can charge it.

Please check our map to see if there is a charge point close to you. 

Find a charge point

There are also dedicated EV bays alongside free standing fast charge posts where you can charge for up to 4 hours from 8:30am to 6:30pm every day.  These are available to all users.

You might need to have access to the suppliers' app, or be in possession of a RFID card issued by the supplier, to obtain a charge. To help improve access, all new installations of 22kW charge points have been equipped with contactless payment terminals.

There are also 30 DC rapid chargers (50kW) on our road network and these can be accessed either via an app or by contactless payment.

You might find it convenient to check the supplier and download the app before you visit the charge point. Please visit the charge point mapping service at zap map if you are unsure who the supplier is at a chosen location.

We have changed the parking charges for electric vehicles. The concession allowing EVs and PHEVs to park in pay-to-park bays for the maximum stay with a 10-minute payment has also been withdrawn. EV and PHEV drivers must now pay for the full duration of their stay. We also no longer offer free resident permits for EVs or PHEVs.

Why go electric?
In London, around 90 percent of all car trips are less than 7 miles, making electric vehicles ideal for emission-free short trips.

EVs will not be subject to vehicle excise duty until April 2025, and their running costs are lower than those of petrol and diesel vehicles. EVs also do not emit CO2 or other air pollutants that have a detrimental effect on human health through their tailpipes. Please visit the Energy Saving Trust website for more information.

The other benefits of running an electric vehicle in Westminster include: 

discounted parking, for both pay-to-park and resident permits. 
access to on-street charging points alongside dedicated EV bays where it is free to park whilst you charge
100 per cent cleaner car discount against the congestion charge until 2025 and no ULEZ charge
Charging providers in Westminster
Charge points in the city are operated by:

Source London 
BP Pulse 
ESB
Ubitricity
Search Zap Map to find the points nearest to you and visit their website for details of how to access the points. There are fees to connect to these points, and these might differ if you decide to join a pay monthly scheme or pay as you go (operator dependent).

Charging at a car park
Charging points are available at a number of privately operated car parks in Westminster, including those operated by Q-Park and NCP.  

Charging from a private supply over the highway
Please do not charge your electric vehicle by running a cable across the public highway from a domestic or business electricity supply.

We do not support this method because of the potential safety risks to members of the public. 

Charging your vehicle with an extension lead is also not recommended, as it can overheat under the continual electrical load required to charge.

Westminster car club
Plug-in hybrid and fully electric vehicles are available to drive as part of the Westminster car club scheme.

Approximately 30 per cent of the flexible car-sharing fleets that operate in Westminster are plug-in hybrid or fully electric.

Our car club page has more information.

Help identify demand
Do you live in Westminster and own an electric vehicle? If so, you can help us assess demand and help plan our future installations by requesting an electric vehicle charging point.

We have already installed large numbers of charging points in compatible lamp columns to help residents make the switch to electric vehicles an easier choice. Please complete the webform to help us understand the demand for charging facilities in your area.

These requests will be considered collectively and will contribute to the planning for any future installation programmes. Unfortunately, due to the volume of interest, we will not be able to respond to requests individually.

Please be aware that some lamp columns are incompatible for a conversion to a charge point or within a feasible location.

Reporting a fault
If you find a fault with a charge point in the City, please report this directly to the supplier whose details can be found on the post.

Where to report a faulty EV charging point.

Published: 20 January 2021

Last updated: 27 June 2024

Is there anything wrong with this page?
All council services
Events
News
Newsletters
Jobs
Logo Westminster
Facebook - Opens in new window 
Instagram - Opens in new window 
Twitter - Opens in new window 
Linkedin - Opens in new window
Accessibility Cookies Data protection Freedom of information Pay gap report Modern slavery Terms and conditions Contact us
